# Software Ownership and Support

For the software our company supports, we want to centralize contact with the vendors of that software for purposes of submitting and remediating bugs.

## Narrative

Our company has a "Software Center" where employees can request pieces of software. Each piece of software has an in-company "owner", called a support tech. This support tech has a relationship with the vendor that supplies the software, and should be the sole contact person for issues regarding that software.

Right now, our vendors are complaining because they are fielding calls from various employees in our company.

Sometimes the issues the employee reports are genuine novel bugs, and need to be addressed.

Sometimes the issues the employee reports are bugs that we are already aware of and are in the vendor's backlog.

Way too often, the issues the employee reports are not actual defects, but symptoms of the employee not understanding the software. These sometimes are resolved as "feature requests", but often the vendor just explains what the user is doing incorrectly and the issue is resolved.

## Problems

Some of our vendors are indicating that this strains their relationship with us, and may need to increase our support contract fees for their software.

We are afraid that if *all* issues for a piece of software are directed at the support tech that "owns" that software they will be overloaded.

## Proposal

Develop a "Software Support Portal" where employees can, for a piece of software, see a list of:

1. Known issues of which the vendor is aware 
    1. Users can indicate that they, too, are experiencing this issue and this information can be "batch reported" to the vendor.
    2. See a list of suggested work-arounds, by the Support Tech, if there are any.
    3. Suggest to the support tech a work-around if they know of one (different than the ones listed).
    4. The Support Tech can annotate these "Known Issues" in other ways:
        1. Indicate that the vendor plans to address this in a future version.
        2. Suggest other software that might accomplish what the user was trying to do.
2. The employee can suggest a feature request to be transmitted to the vendor.
    1. These will be reviewed by the support tech and passed along if deemed worthy.
    2. Other employees can "Up Vote" this feature request, once approved by the support tech.
    3. If these features appear in a future version of the software, the feature requests can be archived by the support tech.
3. Finally, if the employee doesn't find a logged issue that seems to fit their experience with the software, they can:
    1. Submit an issue describing their experience with the software.
        1. This issue will be reviewed by the support tech, who can:
            1. Annotate it as an actual issue
                1. Make a plan to submit it to the vendor that owns the software.
                2. Make updates on the issue over time (e.g. notes from the vendor, plans for a fix, etc.)
                    1. These updates should be emailed to the user and appear for them on the portal.
                3. Close the issue once it is resolved.
                    1. In some cases, this requires approval of the submitting user.
                    2. In either case, the user should be notified by email when the issue is closed. It should also appear on the portal.
            2. In the case of a duplicate issue, it can be annotated with the ID of the current issue.
                1. The user should be notified by email of this.
                2. This should appear on the portal for one month with the annotation referring to the actual issue, and then should be archived.
        

